Welcome back.
We just learned about the password API and how this API allows us to trust no one.
That is we only trust ourselves and we're only going to give the bits of information that we feel comfortable
to the API so that it gives us a response with some data that we can then calculate on our own machines
that are hypothetically more secure.
So what we did here is that instead of giving the entire hash of our password we just give a little
bit of it.
The first five characters now they have close to 600 million passwords in their database.
And the Web site now maybe just knows that we're part of several hundred people that have a similar
starting hash but they're never going to know our password but with this response data we can now check
our full hash to see if the password has ever been post or has ever been hacked.
So let's start writing our program because ideally in this response I now have maybe several hundred
lists of these hashes that I can check against let's think about what we want to do.
So ideally we have let's say a function and this function will be the request API data which is what
we've done here.
So we'll move that down here once we're ready and here we'll give it the query characters.
So that is we're going to give it this hashed version of our password.
So this is going to be a function that for now we'll just pass.
But this is going to request our data and give us a response next with this response.
We actually want to check so we can say that we want to check the pond API check and in here we'll give
our password that is our actual password in our case will be password 1 2 3 and in here we want to do
some sort of a check.
We want to say check password if it exists in API response from up here.
So for now we'll just pass that.
So let's work on the first one that is request API data.
We've already done some of this over here.
Right.
I'm actually going to move this code up here.
Make sure we have the padding now in here instead of this string.
I'll actually give the query character that we'll call the function with so that it's dynamic and again
we'll request that your URL will have the response.
And in here we'll do a check.
We'll say if response dot status because remember we can check our response if the status is two hundred
or in this case let's say if the status is not equal to two hundred in that case let's just raise an
error.
So I'll say raise we'll do a runtime error and we'll say well let's use an F string and we'll say error
fetching.
And then we'll give it the status code so that as response dot status and actually this is status code.
So let's just do status code here and then we'll just say check the API and try again all right.
So this should be our error if we make a mistake let's just test that out.
I'm going to just.
Let's do an API that doesn't exist.
So I just written some gibberish here.
If I save and run this well I have to actually run this piece of code.
So let's just do request API data and that query character is going to be one two three and you know
what this is going to air out whether I do that or not so let's just do this because it's not the hash
version and I actually get a python error of type error can only concatenate string not end.
So we can just convert this to a string because remember we're adding it to the you are all here again.
If we run this all right.
Look at that.
We've raised a runtime error.
We have a runtime error error fetching 400.
Check the API and try again.
All right.
So this part is working but in this case if we don't have that air let's just say that we will return
the response again we're just writing small simple functions.
In this case we just want our request API data.
So now we can use it throughout our code.
Awesome.
Now this next part is a little tricky because we have to run our password through the SHA 1 algorithm.
Luckily Python has a built in module for us to do this so we can actually do import hash lip as you
can see it's a built in module so you can read up more on it if you want.
In our case we're able to do SHA 1 hashing like we did on our Web site with this library in here where
we're going to do is first of all I want to be able to hash my password.
So let's remove the pass here and say SHA 1 password and we can use the hash lib like this hash lib
dot Sha one which is the hashing algorithm we want to use and this is going to be a little tricky but
you can just read the documentation I'll just show you how to do it in our case we can do password and
we want to encode in UTF 8
which is pretty standard actually.
You know what.
Let me show you what this does.
So I'm going to say print and I'll just do password and code UTF 8.
So let's just do that for now.
For now I'm going to comment that.
So I'm going to call pound API check and we'll do one two three.
Let's clear this point to save and run this piece of code
all right.
It's encoded.
You see this little bee over here in UTF 8.
I'll actually show you what happens when we remove the ENCODE after this next.
When we use the hash lib.
Siobhan so let me just copy this
if I just run this I get a sha 1 hash object now.
After this we can call dot hex digest like so.
And if I run this Hmm well how can we check this.
Well we can go to hash lib and just simply search for hex digest so in here at any point you can ask
it for the digest of the concatenation of the data blah blah blah hex digest.
So that doesn't really explain anything for us.
Let's just go to the next part and the next part and then go hex digest it returns a String object of
double length containing only hex and decimal digits.
This is just something that we need to do in order to convert this object into this hexadecimal string.
The next part in order to agree with the API is to convert all of this to objects.
So if I do up a here and I save and run this again everything is an opera case just like we saw when
we looked at Sha 1 So this is just something that again you don't really need to know you just have
to can google around and see how to actually use this.
Now let me show you what happens when we don't use UTF 8 and code.
So if I just do it like this and I run this you see that I get an error the unicode objects must be
encoded before hashing.
So it actually gives you a nice error and we can just encoded using UTF 8 like that.
So this is just the standard.
Again nothing too crazy.
You can read up on encoding and UTF 8 if you want on your own.
The key here is that by the end of it we have a sha 1 password that we can send.
So let me just copy all of this going to remove the print and in here we'll have our SHA 1 password
awesome so for now let's just return this SHA 1 password and if I run this well looks like our code
is working we're not printing anything but hopefully we are getting this SHA 1 password now in the next
video I actually want to try and send this to our API and see what kind of response we get.
Let's do that take a break.
I'll see in the next one.